README.md, before:

# FreeBrowse v2

🚧 Work in progress 🚧

FreeBrowse is a full-stack, web-based neuroimaging viewer and editor.  It
aspires to be a web-based version of the
[FreeSurfer](surfer.nmr.mgh.harvard.edu) tool
[FreeView](surfer.nmr.mgh.harvard.edu/fswiki/FreeviewGuide).

Try out the 'serverless' version: [https://freesurfer.github.io/freebrowse/](https://freesurfer.github.io/freebrowse/)

**Frontend:**
- [React](https://react.dev) + [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org)
- [Vite](https://vite.dev) (build tool)
- [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com) 4 + [Radix UI](https://www.radix-ui.com) components
- [NiiVue](https://github.com/niivue/niivue) (neuroimaging viewer)

**Backend:**
- [FastAPI](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com) (Python web framework)
- [Pixi](https://pixi.sh) (package manager)

This is a re-write of the initial FreeBrowse implementation, based off of the
[niivue fullstack demo](https://github.com/niivue/fullstack-niivue-demo/).

Are you looking for the original FreeBrowse codebase?  That now lives on the
branch [`v1`](https://github.com/freesurfer/freebrowse/tree/v1).

## Install

### Pre-requisites

Requirements:
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org) (for frontend environment)
- [npm](https://www.npmjs.com) (for frontend environment)
- [pixi](https://pixi.sh) (for backend environment)
- [git](https://git-scm.com/)

This should install all dependencies on an Ubuntu 24.04 system:

```
sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade -y
sudo apt install nodejs npm git -y
curl -fsSL https://pixi.sh/install.sh | sh
```

Then clone the repo:

```
git clone git@github.com:freesurfer/freebrowse.git
```

If you want to use the example data, run `get-example-volumes.sh` in the `data/` folder:

```bash
cd freebrowse/data
./get-example-volumes.sh
```

### Frontend Setup

```bash
cd frontend
npm install
```

### Backend Setup

```bash
cd backend
pixi install
```

## Build

To build a fully serverless frontend (no backend required at all), use the
`VITE_SERVERLESS` environment variable:

```bash
cd frontend
VITE_SERVERLESS=true npm run build
```

This creates a static build in `frontend/dist/` that can be deployed to GitHub
Pages or any static file host.

## Dev

### Run the backend in development mode

This hot reloads the backend when changes are made to the code.

```bash
cd backend
pixi run dev
```

### Run the frontend in development mode

```bash
cd frontend
npm run dev
```

or

```bash
cd frontend
VITE_SERVERLESS=true npm run dev
```

Then navigate to [http://localhost:5173/](http://localhost:5173/)

### Github Pages

To enable GitHub Pages:

1. Go to your repo on GitHub: Settings --> Pages
2. Under "Build and deployment", set Source to "GitHub Actions"
3. Push changes to main

You should then be able to view the 'serverless' version of your changes at https://{github-username.github.io/freebrowse/

## Production

## Build the frontend for production

```bash
cd frontend
npm run build
```

## Acknowledgements

FreeBrowse was generously funded by
[Gates Ventures](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gates_Ventures).  The [original
implementation](https://github.com/freesurfer/freebrowse/tree/v1) was performed
by [zuehlke](https://www.zuehlke.com).

Version 2 is based off of the
[niivue fullstack demo](https://github.com/niivue/fullstack-niivue-demo/) which
was developed during a
[Google Summer of Code Project](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/programs/2025/projects/h9cDmi0E)
in close collaboration with the [niivue](https://niivue.com) team.

Commit message:

Singlefile verison of FreeBrowse (#7)
* [ENH] singlefile version of freebrowse

* [ENH] script to help create niivue documents with embedded data

* [DOC] updating github action and readme

* [ENH] can now create a standalone freebrowse html with embedded nvd data

README.md, after:

# FreeBrowse v2

🚧 Work in progress 🚧

FreeBrowse is a full-stack, web-based neuroimaging viewer and editor.  It
aspires to be a web-based version of the
[FreeSurfer](surfer.nmr.mgh.harvard.edu) tool
[FreeView](surfer.nmr.mgh.harvard.edu/fswiki/FreeviewGuide).

Try out the 'serverless' version: [https://freesurfer.github.io/freebrowse/](https://freesurfer.github.io/freebrowse/)

**Frontend:**
- [React](https://react.dev) + [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org)
- [Vite](https://vite.dev) (build tool)
- [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com) 4 + [Radix UI](https://www.radix-ui.com) components
- [NiiVue](https://github.com/niivue/niivue) (neuroimaging viewer)

**Backend:**
- [FastAPI](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com) (Python web framework)
- [Pixi](https://pixi.sh) (package manager)

This is a re-write of the initial FreeBrowse implementation, based off of the
[niivue fullstack demo](https://github.com/niivue/fullstack-niivue-demo/).

Are you looking for the original FreeBrowse codebase?  That now lives on the
branch [`v1`](https://github.com/freesurfer/freebrowse/tree/v1).

## Install

### Pre-requisites

Requirements:
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org) (for frontend environment)
- [npm](https://www.npmjs.com) (for frontend environment)
- [pixi](https://pixi.sh) (for backend environment)
- [git](https://git-scm.com/)

This should install all dependencies on an Ubuntu 24.04 system:

```
sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade -y
sudo apt install nodejs npm git -y
curl -fsSL https://pixi.sh/install.sh | sh
```

Then clone the repo:

```
git clone git@github.com:freesurfer/freebrowse.git
```

If you want to use the example data, run `get-example-volumes.sh` in the `data/` folder:

```bash
cd freebrowse/data
./get-example-volumes.sh
```

### Frontend Setup

```bash
cd frontend
npm install
```

### Backend Setup

```bash
cd backend
pixi install
```

## Build

To build a fully serverless frontend (no backend required at all), use the
`VITE_SERVERLESS` environment variable:

```bash
cd frontend
VITE_SERVERLESS=true npm run build
```

This creates a static build in `frontend/dist/` that can be deployed to GitHub
Pages or any static file host.

To build a single html file that can be distributed alongside output of
processing pipelines:

```bash
cd frontend
npm run build:singlefile
```

This creates a single standalone html file in `frontend/dist-singlefile/` that 
is compatible with the `file://` protocol.  User's can use this to view local
imaging data or self-contained niivue documents.  The latest version of the
standalone html file is available at

https://freesurfer.github.io/freebrowse/downloads/freebrowse-<version>.html

Where `<version>` is the [current version of freebrowse](https://github.com/freesurfer/freebrowse/blob/main/frontend/package.json#L4)

## Dev

### Run the backend in development mode

This hot reloads the backend when changes are made to the code.

```bash
cd backend
pixi run dev
```

### Run the frontend in development mode

```bash
cd frontend
npm run dev
```

or

```bash
cd frontend
VITE_SERVERLESS=true npm run dev
```

Then navigate to [http://localhost:5173/](http://localhost:5173/)

### Github Pages

To enable GitHub Pages:

1. Go to your repo on GitHub: Settings --> Pages
2. Under "Build and deployment", set Source to "GitHub Actions"
3. Push changes to main

You should then be able to view the 'serverless' version of your changes at https://{github-username.github.io/freebrowse/

## Production

## Build the frontend for production

```bash
cd frontend
npm run build
```

## Acknowledgements

FreeBrowse was generously funded by
[Gates Ventures](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gates_Ventures).  The [original
implementation](https://github.com/freesurfer/freebrowse/tree/v1) was performed
by [zuehlke](https://www.zuehlke.com).

Version 2 is based off of the
[niivue fullstack demo](https://github.com/niivue/fullstack-niivue-demo/) which
was developed during a
[Google Summer of Code Project](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/programs/2025/projects/h9cDmi0E)
in close collaboration with the [niivue](https://niivue.com) team.
